After some time of silence I would like to announce some news about EasyShop.

The code has been moved to Google, you can find it here:

http://easyshop-for-plone.googlecode.com/

There are various buildouts to install it:

http://easyshop-for-plone.googlecode.com/svn/buildout/

A small instruction to install the preferable buildout (trunk) is here:

http://code.google.com/p/easyshop-for-plone/wiki/InstallBuildout

A demo shop based on the latest trunk is here:

http://easyshop.iqpp.de/

Development of trunk has been completely moved to Plone 3.x, but there is also a branch for Plone 2.5.x., where I may backport new features from time to time.

The code has been completely refactored and cleaned up. There are now packages for every part of the shop, like carts, orders, payment, shipping and so on. It should be easy to write own packages and plug they in.

Additional to the existing features, there is a lot of new stuff. In short:

 * Optional anonymous checkout
 * Credit card management and payment processor (at the moment there is authorize.net)
 * Stock management/information
 * New cart (You can change payment and shipping on the fly to calculate current price)
 * New catalog views (e.g.: category view, displays all sub categories of current category)
 * Some new management views for various parts (products, categories, orders)
 * Some new workflows
 * More KSS support
 * LinguaPlone support (work in progress)
 * Sale prices
 * Discounts

=== What's comming next?===
It is planned to make a beta release in february.
I'm working on a screencast at the moment, which covers all features of EasyShop. I hope, I can publish it with the release but it's more work than expected, hence I'm not sure. 
(if someone would like to help out please get in touch)

=== EasyShop and the real live ===
You may be interested in the fact that there are some new customers/projects for EasyShop. I will announce them in more detail if I'm allowed to but for short:

  * EasyShop is part of an international social network (heavy work in progress)
  * EasyShop is used to create an international shopping mall (heavy work in progress)
  * There is a new customer in US (heavy work in progress)
  * An existing shop (http://demmelhuber.net) is going to be completely refactored and migrated to Plone 3.x of (starting soon)
  * There are some 3rd-Party projects out here (more soon)
  * Components of EasyShop will be used to create a more general shop framework (starting soon)

===Please help===
It would be great, if you try it out and report bugs to http://code.google.com/p/easyshop-for-plone/issues/list or simply via mail to kai.diefenbach@iqpp.de. Also if you have questions, recommendations and/or feature requests don't hesitate to get in touch. I would be happy to discuss.

More coming soon.