#summary Summarises some of the E-Commerce solutions for Plone and why one might choose EasyShop
#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements

= Introduction: =
This article is entirely a personal opinion - I won't pretend that it is not. So take it as it is!

Around the Summer of 2009 I began the search for an E-Commerce solution for my company, [http://www.nedproductions.biz/ ned Productions Limited] as we were intending to begin the online sale of a business product we were prototyping at the time via the web, eBay and Amazon. As a small company in the tiny economy of Ireland, we had an unusually high need for B2B EU VAT support (i.e. the ability to zero rate VAT for intra-EU B2B transactions), complete support for Paypal which is almost ubiquitous for SMEs in the EU as the sole affordable means of handling credit card transations, and of course because EU small business tends to sell on eBay to a much greater extent than in the US. Lastly, delivery costs within the EU are highly variable when compared to the US, so from Ireland sending a package to Spain is typically 50% more than sending it to Germany and sending it to Germany is typically 50% higher than sending it to the UK. Any E-Commerce solution selling into the EU needs to know down to a fine degree what delivery costs will be for some given customer, so flat rate only delivery is a deal breaker.

Given all this complexity, generally SMEs in Ireland tend to rent an E-Commerce solution with Microsoft Dynamics probably being the most common. Given the parlous present state of the Irish economy, we at ned Productions Ltd couldn't afford the thousands of euro a year when we were so uncertain of likely sales, so we resolved to discover an open source solution and enhance it if needs be.

= Plone v3.x E-Commerce Solutions: =
As we're a [http://www.plone.org/ Plone]-based company offering Plone-based web solutions, something integratable into Plone was the most desirable if only as an advertisement of our own services. And Plone has precisely three shopping cart solutions (I list those only for Plone v3.x):

  * [http://www.plonegetpaid.com/ GetPaid] is the most well known, and indeed it can be made to work well for very simple types of shopping cart. I will freely admit that I don't keep up with the latest developments in this project, but when I evaluated it towards the end of 2009 it had no VAT support (one can find a sales tax plugin at http://www.mail-archive.com/getpaid-dev@googlegroups.com/msg00638.html, but sales tax is an additive tax whereas VAT is an acquisitive tax), and worse when I reviewed its implementation structure I could see no easy way of adding full VAT support. Also at that time its Paypal plugin wasn't functional, nor does GetPaid's structure easily allow a proper implementation (as its contributors have found) which is another major deal breaker for me. To summarise, I think that GetPaid is fine for private individuals or very small businesses selling the odd item, but I don't think it would be a good idea to base your entire company around it.

  * [http://plone.org/products/pcommerce.core pcommerce.core] is the newest, and it looks to me a Plone v3 clone of [http://plone.org/products/simplecartitem/ SimpleCartItem for Plone v2]. You get a simple Product type which can be added to a cart, and that cart can be checked out (though I get a TraversalError exception in v0.3 which instantly put me off it - after all, the checkout code NEEDS to be bulletproof). There isn't any quantity management so there is no way of showing how many items are still in stock to the customer, nor did I see any method of specifying different delivery costs according to destination and weight. All in all, no good for my needs.

  * Lastly there is Easyshop which is this project. Easyshop understands two types of tax: sales tax and customer-only tax, and it has extensive criteria options for setting precise rules about when which of the tax options ought to be applied when. It has a similar criteria based system for delivery types and delivery prices, allowing exact delivery cost specification. It maintains quantities of product, decrementing them when sold so customers can see how quickly they might obtain their purchase. It also provides a simple but effective order history system for each customer such that they can log in and check the status(es) of their order(s) just like an E-Commerce solution from the big boys. In short, it's the no brainer choice for anyone selling much of anything at all, but I should warn you that at the present time of writing (early 2010) the code is of alpha quality. Given our situation at ned Productions Ltd as described above, we resolved to bring the Paypal backend-based implementation up to deployment quality ourselves and this we are well into doing^[*]^.

I should mention for completeness' sake that there are ample full system ERP and CRM deployments for Zope into which Plone can be integrated (see [http://www.contentmanagementsoftware.info/zope/e-commerce this list for a few of them]), but these require an external database and are usually too full featured for the typical eBay sized retailer. Nevertheless if your requirements include the tracking of BOMs (Bill of Materials) such that the sale of product variants automatically cause the ordering of subcomponents entering low stock levels, you ought to consider a low end ERP deployment.

Niall Douglas<br/>
[http://www.nedproductions.biz/ ned Productions Limited]

^*^: I should add that our work on Easyshop is currently done outside our normal (paid) workflow, so development on it stops and starts according to how busy we are. If you would like it to proceed a lot faster, or to develop/improve features which we don't need ourselves, [http://www.nedproductions.biz/rates we can be hired at attractive rates to implement these] (as can most of the other contributors to Easyshop - see the [http://code.google.com/p/easyshop-for-plone/people/list Contributing People] page).